---
title: Routine Podiatry
cover: callus-shaving-paul.avif
coverAlt: Shaving a callus off the bottom of the foot
---

## Corns and Calluses

Corns and calluses on the feet can be extremely painful and are caused by excessive pressure or friction (rubbing) of
the skin which changes the way skin cells grow and results in the thickening of the outer layers of the skin.

Corns and calluses can be painlessly removed, and advice can be given to prevent further recurrences.

> “After treatment you will feel like you are walking on air”

A corn is a small area of skin which has become thickened due to pressure on it, they are often very painful. A corn is
normally round in shape and presses into the deeper layers of the skin. There are two types of corns, hard and soft.
Hard corns form on the tops of the toes or over any bony areas. Soft corns form in between the toes and are equally
painful.
Callus tends to be larger, broader, and has less defined edges than a corn. They commonly form on the underside of the
foot and over bony areas.

### Common corn/ callus causes

* Abnormal walking patterns
* Tight or poor-fitting shoes.
* Deformities of the feet such as hammer or claw toes, which lead to the skin rubbing more easily inside shoes.
* Excessive running or walking

In some cases,
it is possible to inject sclerosing alcohol (ref [G Dockery Jan04 p117-130 CME](https://podiatrym.com/cme/Jan04CME.pdf))
into the corn to help remove nerve endings and pain.
A full assessment will be required with our clinical staff. 